Topics/Datasets

RNA-seq - Melanoma - Variant Calling Pipeline from RNAseq to differentiate germline and somatic mutations from RNAediting (HTseq with Apache Spark).
  Sample datasets
    PRJNA264334
    PRJNA217909
    PRJNA202398
    PRJNA133097 
Comparison with known germline variants (1000 genomes [using the dbGaP version] and ClinVar)
Isoform specificity based on mapping to 454 data.  
Software available.  
Correlation with RNA structure prediction
Comparison with NCI-60 cell line variants.  
Determination of mosaicism. 
Germ-line vs intratumor 
Detection of systematic quality score variants indicating RNA editing with Illumina and Pacbio reads
Correlation with RNA structure prediction
Super bonus round! -- fix HTseq annotation of tiny exons in UTRs  

Epigenomics  -- Mouse Embryonic Fibroblasts and ENCODE
  Sample datasets
    http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/268980
    http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/50617
Call activation/inhibition peaks
From a normalization across many datasets from different labs
Look for enhancers
Look for SNPs in their regions
Active vs Inactive
Compare with RNA-seq datasets
Methylation of CpG islands
(Optional project 1) Analysis of occupancy of RNA-Polymerase IIPhosphorylated Serine 5 vs. Serine 2
Write a python code for meta-gene or uni-gene model
Analysis on Initiation vs. elongation vs. pausing
(Optional project 2) Analyzing ChIA-pet or high C results with RNA-seq experiments 

Metagenomics - Detection of endogenous viruses in mammalian samples.
e.g. ERV-K7 in 1000 Genomes
  Example: NA12878 (GiaB)
Detection of viruses in traditional metagenomics samples.   
  Example sets 
    HMP (Five tissue types)
    SRP032345
Comparison of BLAST, denovo assembly, and contig-BLAST
Metavelvet/Cortex/megahit/price/pathoscope
LATF loading
WGS loading?
DNAseq - (Variant sequencing/multiomics) - Neuroblastoma - tumor/normal and primary/metastatic comparisons in 
WES data
  Example sets
    PRJNA76777
Cross-compare with RNASeq for eQTLs.
  Example sets
    PRJNA214507
    PRJNA205232
    PRJNA153309
Cross-compare with epigenetic datasets for eQTLs.
Example sets 
PRJNA154163
Establishment of a trimming/masking/validation procedure for public datasets
Examine differences between rare and common variants in this context
Obvious variant elimination and iteration. 

Personnel (Team leads)
RNAseq - Allissa Dillman
Epigenomics - Sijung Yun/Ian Fingerman
Metagenomics -  David Kristensen with technical advice from Julia Oh
Variant sequencing/multiomics - Claire Simpson 
General hacking and cloud development - Mordy Abzug/Matt Lesko/Jesse Becker/Radhouane Aniba 
BLAST and SRA/toolkit personnel… around at least Monday morning/afternoon.  (see daily schedule)

Technical Considerations
Github
Docker containers?
TBD
Coders Crowd
Docker Images
Rad will help in the creation of these images if groups are interested (Evening of January 5th)
He will need dependencies from participants
Workflow Diagramming
Microsoft Vizio
Lucidchart.com
Cloud access 
We will distribute IPs and passwords 1/5
Project management utilities
Google Groups
Trello
Slack
